Add some integrated raft storage docs (#8417)
hashicorp/vault: website/pages/docs/internals/integrated-storage.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Integrated Storage
sidebar_title: Integrated Storage
description: Learn about the integrated raft storage in Vault.
---

# Integrated Storage

Vault supports a number of Storage options for the durable storage of Vault's

> inforation. Each backend has pros, cons, advantages, and trade-offs. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information. Each backend has pros, cons, advantages, and trade-offs. For
```

attempts to replicate to a quorum of followers. Once the log entry is considered
*committed*, it can be *applied* to a finite state machine. The finite state machine
is application specific; in Vault's case, we use
[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) to maintain cluster state. Vault's writes
block until it is both _committed_ and _applied_.

Obviously, it would be undesirable to allow a replicated log to grow in an unbounded
fashion. Raft provides a mechanism by which the current state is snapshotted and the
log is compacted. Because of the FSM abstraction, restoring the state of the FSM must
result in the same state as a replay of old logs. This allows Raft to capture the FSM
state at a point in time and then remove all the logs that were used to reach that
state. This is performed automatically without user intervention and prevents unbounded
disk usage while also minimizing the time spent replaying logs. One of the advantages of
using BoltDB is that it allows Vault's snapshots to be very light weight. Since
Vault's data is already persisted to disk in BoltDB the snapshot process just
needs to truncate the raft logs.

> Consensus is fault-tolerant up to the point where quorum is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consensus is fault-tolerant while a cluster has quorum.
```

preserves consistency and safety. 

The join process is how new nodes are added to the vault cluster, it uses an
encrypted challenge/answer workflow. To accomplish this, all nodes in a single
raft cluster must share the same seal configuration. If using an Auto Unseal the
join process can use the configured seal to automatically decrypt the challenge
and respond with the answer. If using a Shamir seal the unseal keys must be
provided to the node attempting to join the cluster before it can decrypt the
challenge and respond with the decrypted answer. 

Since all servers participate as part of the peer set, they all know the current
leader. When an API request arrives at a non-leader server, the request is
forwarded to the leader.

Similar to other storage backends, data that is written to the Raft log and FSM
will be encrypted by Vault's barrier.

### Deployment Table

Below is a table that shows quorum size and failure tolerance for various
cluster sizes. The recommended deployment is either 3 or 5 servers. A single
server deployment is _**highly**_ discouraged as data loss is inevitable in a
failure scenario.

> <table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

Reviewer 2: You can use a markdown table here if you'd like: https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/organizing-information-with-tables

The leader must accept new log entries and replicate to all the other followers.

Once a cluster has a leader, it is able to accept new log entries. A client can
request that a leader append a new log entry (from Raft's perspective, a log entry
is an opaque binary blob). The leader then writes the entry to durable storage and
attempts to replicate to a quorum of followers. Once the log entry is considered
*committed*, it can be *applied* to a finite state machine. The finite state machine
is application specific; in Vault's case, we use
[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) to maintain cluster state. Vault's writes
block until it is both _committed_ and _applied_.

Obviously, it would be undesirable to allow a replicated log to grow in an unbounded
fashion. Raft provides a mechanism by which the current state is snapshotted and the
log is compacted. Because of the FSM abstraction, restoring the state of the FSM must
result in the same state as a replay of old logs. This allows Raft to capture the FSM
state at a point in time and then remove all the logs that were used to reach that
state. This is performed automatically without user intervention and prevents unbounded

> disk usage while also minimizing time spent replaying logs. One of the advantages of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
disk usage while also minimizing the time spent replaying logs. One of the advantages of
```
